In the previous video, we already learn about
some basic command of cisco.
One of command that we already learn is enable
password and enable secret.
If you remember, the enable password command
is not secure, this is because the password
is shown clearly when we show running-config.
But the enable secret is secure, because the
password is encrypted.
Let’s see in the router, here we can see
that the password of enable secret is encrypted.
Okay now let’s go to the switch, and here
we are going to configure enable password,
here when we go to privilege mode, we don’t
need to type any password.
This is means that the password is not configured
yet.
Okay, go to configuration mode.
And then here we will configure the password.
Enable password, and then the password let’s
say 123.
Now let’s exit, and then show run.
Here we can see that the password is 123.
Once again, the password of enable password
will not encrypted like this.
So actually this is not secure.
There is a command in cisco that we can use
to encrypt unencrypted password like this.
Okay let’s try, go to global configuration
mode again, and here let’s type service
password-encryption.
Okay now let’s try to show run again, remember
to use do.
Here we can see that the password is encrypted.
But actually we can decrypt this easily.
Let’s try to decrypt this, copy the encrypted
password.
And We can googling cisco password decrypt.
Let’s choose the first one.
And here we can just paste the encrypted password.
Okay here we can see that we can decrypt the
password easily.
The password is 123.
Okay so the conclusion is, we can encrypt
the password of enable password with service
password-encryption.
But the encrypted password is very weak, this
is means that we can decrypt the password
easily.
That is why, the best practice is to use enable
secret rather than enable password.
Because the encrypted password of enable secret
is very strong.
Okay I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!